Okay, so now you've seen the two big problems that streaming JSON APIs solve,
let's together take a look at what a streaming API actually entails,
how to use the API.
This is structured as a series of live coding demos with the example
code in a project that ships along with this course.
So feel free to code along at home.
So first, let's walk through the basic API usage.
You're going to see how we parse the same bank loan document
that we've been using as a running example.
You'll also see how we extract information and what errors look like.
So,
what we'll do here is we're going to take the bank_loan file
that we've seen before and I'm going to show you how to parse
it using the streaming API here.
So the first thing we need to do in order to create the
streaming API is to create a parser.
And in order to create a parser, we need to create a factory.
Now we've got our factory, we can create the parser from the factory.
Now, as you can see,
there's a variety of different overloads for creating different
types of parsers from different input sources,
similar to the ones we had with the DOM and binding APIs.
So I'm just going to create a parser for a file because I'm
going to be putting in the BANK_LOAN_FILE.
And I would call my parser, parser.
Now, the jsonParser object opens a reference to that resource.
So if this is going to open a file, we need to have a way of closing it as well.
So,
I'm going to wrap it with a JSON 7 style try with resources block that will
ensure the parser gets closed at the end of this block.
Our parser itself has a method for advancing step by
step through every token in the file.
So a token is basically like a different component
of the input stream that we see.
For example, a number could be a token, or the field name could be a token,
or the opening brace for a Java object could be a token.
We need to loop through these different tokens,
and at the end when we run our tokens, the next token method will return null.
So I need to basically check that the parser.
nextToken is not equal to null.
Now in practice,
I probably want to do something with the token so I'll
start parsing through them as well.
So let's assign each token to a local variable.
There we go.
Now our token variable will be updated as we go through the loop,
and then we'll check that it's not equal to null at the end.
What I want to do is basically now just print out the token.
And also, print out the text at that point in time as well.
And you can see we have the different types of tokens here,
so START_OBJECT with that brace, a FIELD_NAME with the name of name here,
the value as a string, which would be Mrs Joan Smith,
the next field, purposeOfLoan.
So as you can see when you're streaming through it,
you're just able to loop through the raw tokens in the JSON input stream.
So let's try and do something a little bit more useful.
Let's try and take all the tokens that are actually values and print them out.
So there's this convenient isScalarValue method,
and when it says a scalar value,
it means something that's not a JSON object or a JSON array.
Now our parser will also keep track of what's known as the currentName.
So the currentName is the last field name that you've seen here.
And if it's valid whenever we get to a value,
the currentName will always be non-null.
There'll always be a name that corresponds to a value because
that's the way JSON documents are paired up.
So now let's take out the currentName.
We'll take out the text of the current token and print it out.
So first of all,
we want to have our output contain the name and I'm just going to have a colon,
and then the value, and then a new line character.
And if rerun this,
we should see all the name value pairs inside the JSON document.
Lovely stuff.
Name, Mrs Joan Smith, purposeOfLoan, to build an extension to our house.
Now,
the win here from a performance point of view often doesn't come
when you just do this kind of raw mapping because you could just
bind that into an object or so.
A lot of it comes when you're just looking for a specific value within the
JSON stream or when you're only parsing through these tokens and throwing
them away after you've done used them once or more.
We'll look at some performance comparisons later and see how that is realized.
But, as you can see,
the API is a little bit more low level than the ones we're used to, but it's still pretty simple to use.